Methods and data/code availability (#2)
greenelab/optimizer-manuscript: content/02.main-text.md

### Cancer gene set construction

In order to study mutation status classification for a diverse set of cancer driver genes, we started with the set of 125 frequently altered genes from Vogelstein et al. [@doi:10.1126/science.1235122] (all genes from Table S2A).
For each target gene, in order to ensure that the training dataset was reasonably balanced (i.e., that there would be enough mutated samples to train an effective classifier), we included only cancer types with at least 15 mutated samples and at least 5% mutated samples, which we refer to here as "valid" cancer types.
In some cases, this resulted in genes with no valid cancer types, which we dropped from the analysis.
Out of the 125 genes originally listed in the Vogelstein et al. cancer gene set, we retained 84 target genes after filtering for valid cancer types.

### Classifier setup and optimizer comparison details

We trained logistic regression classifiers to predict whether or not a given sample had a mutational event in a given target gene using gene expression features as explanatory variables.

> Our model was trained on gene expression data (X) to predict mutation presence or absence (y) in a target gene.

Reviewer: You may want to add a reference to your prior work to note that, when thinking about predictability, the gene was more important than the -ome just in case a reviewer wants to quibble that you didn't look across methylation, etc.

To compare model selection across optimizers, we first split the "valid" cancer types into train (75%) and test (25%) sets.
We then split the training data into "subtrain" (66% of the training set) data to train the model on, and "holdout" (33% of the training set) data to perform model selection, i.e. to use to select the best-performing regularization parameter.
In each case, these splits were stratified by cancer type, i.e. each split had as close as possible to equal proportions of each cancer type included in the dataset for the given driver gene.
For the `liblinear` optimizer, we trained models using the following range of $C$ values (inverse of regularization strength; i.e. higher values = less regularization) : {0.001, 0.005, 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.5, 1, 5, 10, 50, 100}.
For the SGD optimizer, we trained models using the following range of $\alpha$ values (proportional to regularization strength; i.e. higher values = more regularization) : {0.00001, 0.00005, 0.0001, 0.0005, 0.001, 0.005, 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.5, 1, 5, 10}.

> These hyperparmeter ranges gave reasonable coverage across genes that included "underfit" models (predicting only the mean or using very few features, poor performance on all datasets), "overfit" models (performing perfectly on training data but comparatively poorly on cross-validation and test data), and a wide variety of models in between that typically included the best fits to the cross-validation and test data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These hyperparmeter ranges were intended to give reasonable coverage across genes that included "underfit" models (predicting only the mean or using very few features, poor performance on all datasets), "overfit" models (performing perfectly on training data but comparatively poorly on cross-validation and test data), and a wide variety of models in between that typically included the best fits to the cross-validation and test data.
```

Reviewer: Minor text change because of the SGD results.

Since the optimizers we compared have regularization parameters that vary in opposite directions and on different scales, rather than comparing regularization strength directly we used the number of nonzero coefficients in the resulting models to make a like-to-like comparison of model complexity.
For each gene, we combined all models (2 random seeds and 4 cross-validation folds = 8 total models for each parameter) across both optimizers to establish an overall distribution of nonzero coefficient counts.
We then calculated the deciles of this distribution, and binned models by decile.
For some genes, there were enough models with no nonzero coefficients (i.e. dummy regressors/models that just predict the mean) that one or more decile boundaries were exactly 0.
In these cases, we combined the lower deciles bounded by 0 into a single bin, which resulted in fewer than 10 total bins.

## Results {.page_break_before}

## Discussion {.page_break_before}

## Data and code availability {.page_break_before}

> The data analyzed during this study were previously published as part of the TCGA Pan-Cancer Atlas project [@doi:10.1038/ng.2764], and are available from the NIH NCI Genomic Data Commons (GDC). The scripts used to download and preprocess the datasets for this study are available at <https://github.com/greenelab/pancancer-evaluation/tree/master/00_process_data>. The code used to carry out the analyses in this study is available at the following link: <https://github.com/greenelab/pancancer-evaluation/tree/master/01_stratified_classification>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data analyzed during this study were previously published as part of the TCGA Pan-Cancer Atlas project [@doi:10.1038/ng.2764], and are available from the NIH NCI Genomic Data Commons (GDC).
The scripts used to download and preprocess the datasets for this study are available at <https://github.com/greenelab/pancancer-evaluation/tree/master/00_process_data>.
The code used to carry out the analyses in this study is available at the following link: <https://github.com/greenelab/pancancer-evaluation/tree/master/01_stratified_classification>.
```

Reviewer: Do you want to note the software licenses here?
